Migrated the `Particle` API to `Vector2` (#728)
flame-engine/flame: doc/particles.md

The most basic usage of `Particle` with `BaseGame` would look as following:

```dart
import 'package:flame/components.dart';

// ... 

game.add(
    /// Wrapping a [Particle] with [ParticleComponent]
    /// which maps [Component] lifecycle hooks to [Particle] ones

>     /// and embeds a trigger for removing the component.

Reviewer: technically since this is a regular comment (not dartdoc), should be only 2 slashes

Author: The reason I added the extra `/` is because it uses Dartdoc notation (`[Reference]`).

    ParticleComponent(
        particle: CircleParticle()
    )

> );

Reviewer 2: Should be indented with two spaces

```

> When using `Particle` with a custom `Game` implementation, please ensure that both the `update` and `render` methods are called during each game loop tick.

Reviewer 2: Make sure that the max line length is 100 in this file too

Author: I just cant seem to get my IDE to format it the way I want it

Reviewer 2: Just do a line break manually?

Reviewer: I'm using the rewrap plugin for vscode, it's really nice!

Main approaches to implement desired particle effects:
* Composition of existing behaviors.
* Use behavior chaining (just a syntactic sugar of the first one).
* Using `ComputedParticle`.

Composition works in a similar fashion to those of Flutter widgets by defining the effect from top to bottom. Chaining allows to express the same composition trees more fluently by defining behaviors from bottom to top. Computed particles in their turn fully delegate implementation of the behavior to your code. Any of the approaches could be used in conjunction with existing behaviors where needed.

Below you can find an example of a effect showing a burst of circles, accelerating from `(0, 0)` to a random directions using all three approaches defined above.
```dart
Random rnd = Random();

> Vector2 randomVector2() => Vector2(
>     rnd.nextDouble() * 200 - 100, 
>     rnd.nextDouble() * 200 - 100,
> );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vector2 randomVector2() => (Vector2.random(rnd) - Vector2.random(rnd)) * 200;
```

Reviewer 2: The previous version would not be uniform btw (not that you added it).

/// Composition.
/// 

> /// Defining particle effect as set of nested behaviors from top to bottom, one within another: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/// Defining a particle effect as a set of nested behaviors from top to bottom, one within another: 
```

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this sentence is a bit weird overall.

Reviewer: same here!

Author: Any good suggestions for rewriting?

/// ParticleComponent 
///   > ComposedParticle 
///     > AcceleratedParticle 
///       > CircleParticle
game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: Particle.generate(
            count: 10,
            generator: (i) => AcceleratedParticle(
                acceleration: randomVector2(),
                child: CircleParticle(
                    paint: Paint()..color = Colors.red,
                ),
            ),
        ),
    ),
);

/// Chaining.
/// 

> /// Expresses same behavior as above, but with more fluent API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/// Expresses the same behavior as above, but with a more fluent API.
```

/// Only [Particles] with [SingleChildParticle] mixin can be used as chainable behaviors.
game.add(
    Particle
        .generate(
            count: 10,
            generator: (i) => CircleParticle(paint: Paint()..color = Colors.red)
                    .accelerating(randomVector2())
        )
        .asComponent(),
);

/// Computed Particle.
/// 

> /// All the behavior is defined explicitly. Offers greater flexibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
/// All the behaviors are defined explicitly. Offers greater flexibility
```

/// compared to built-in behaviors.
game.add(
    Particle
        .generate(
            count: 10,
            generator: (i) {
                final position = Vector2.zero();
                final speed = Vector2.zero();

>                 final acceleration = randomVector2();

Reviewer 2: Indentation width 2

The most basic usage of a `Particle` with `BaseGame` would look as following:

```dart
import 'package:flame/components.dart';

// ... 

game.add(
  /// Wrapping a [Particle] with [ParticleComponent]
  /// which maps [Component] lifecycle hooks to [Particle] ones
  /// and embeds a trigger for removing the component.
  ParticleComponent(
    particle: CircleParticle(),
  ),
);
```

When using `Particle` with a custom `Game` implementation, please ensure that both the `update` and `render` methods are called during each game loop tick.

Main approaches to implement desired particle effects:
* Composition of existing behaviors.
* Use behavior chaining (just a syntactic sugar of the first one).
* Using `ComputedParticle`.

> Composition works in a similar fashion to those of Flutter widgets by defining the effect from top to bottom. Chaining allows to express the same composition trees more fluently by defining behaviors from bottom to top. Computed particles in their turn fully delegate implementation of the behavior to your code. Any of the approaches could be used in conjunction with existing behaviors where needed.

Reviewer 2: Max 100 line length

        final acceleration = randomVector2();
        final paint = Paint()..color = Colors.red;

        return ComputedParticle(

>           renderer: (canvas, _) {

Reviewer 2: Not your change but indentation is off

)
```

> You can find more examples of using different built-in particles in various combinations [here](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/blob/main/examples/lib/stories/utils/particles.dart).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find more examples of how to use different built-in particles in various combinations [here](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/blob/main/examples/lib/stories/utils/particles.dart).
```

## Lifecycle

> Behavior common to all `Particle`s is that all of them accept a `lifespan` parameter. This value is used to make the `ParticleComponent` self-remove, once its internal `Particle` has reached the end of its life. Time within the `Particle` itself is tracked using the Flame `Timer` class. It can be configured with a `double`, represented in seconds (with microsecond precision) by passing it into the corresponding `Particle` constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A behavior common to all `Particle`s is that all of them accept a `lifespan` argument. This value is used to make the `ParticleComponent` remove itself once its internal `Particle` has reached the end of its life. Time within the `Particle` itself is tracked using the Flame `Timer` class. It can be configured with a `double`, represented in seconds (with microsecond precision) by passing it into the corresponding `Particle` constructor.
```

```dart
Particle(lifespan: .2); // will live for 200ms.
Particle(lifespan: 4); // will live for 4s.
```

It is also possible to reset a `Particle`'s lifespan by using the `setLifespan` method, which also accepts a `double` of seconds. 

```dart
final particle = Particle(lifespan: 2);

// ... after some time.
particle.setLifespan(2) // will live for another 2s.
```

> During its lifetime, a `Particle` tracks the time it was alive and exposes it with through the `progress` getter, which is returns a value between `0.0` and `1.0`. This value can be used in a similar fashion as the `value` property of the `AnimationController` class in Flutter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During its lifetime, a `Particle` tracks the time it was alive and exposes it through the `progress` getter, which returns a value between `0.0` and `1.0`. This value can be used in a similar fashion as the `value` property of the `AnimationController` class in Flutter.
```

Reviewer 2: It's not really the time that it exposes either, right?

```dart
final duration = const Duration(seconds: 2);
final particle = Particle(lifespan: duration.inMicroseconds / Durations.microsecondsPerSecond);

game.add(ParticleComponent(particle: particle));

// Will print values from 0 to 1 with step of .1: 0, 0.1, 0.2 ... 0.9, 1.0.
Timer.periodic(duration * .1, () => print(particle.progress));
```

The `lifespan` is passed down to all the descendants of a given `Particle`, if it supports any of the nesting behaviors.

## Built-in particles

Flame ships with a few built-in `Particle` behaviors:
* The `TranslatedParticle`, translates its `child` by given `Vector2`

> * The `MovingParticle`, moves its `child` between two predefined `Vector2`, supports `Curve`

Reviewer 2: All commas after the particle names should go away imho

* The `AcceleratedParticle`, allows basic physics based effects, like gravitation or speed dampening
* The `CircleParticle`, renders circles of all shapes and sizes
* The `SpriteParticle`, renders Flame `Sprite` within a `Particle` effect
* The `ImageParticle`, renders *dart:ui* `Image` within a `Particle` effect
* The `ComponentParticle`, renders Flame `Component` within a `Particle` effect
* The `FlareParticle`, renders Flare animation within a `Particle` effect

> More examples of using these behaviors together are available [here](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/blob/main/examples/lib/stories/utils/particles.dart). All the implementations are available in the [particles](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame/lib/src/particles) folder on the Flame repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More examples of how to use these behaviors together are available [here](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/blob/main/examples/lib/stories/utils/particles.dart). All the implementations are available in the [particles](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame/tree/main/packages/flame/lib/src/particles) folder on the Flame repository.
```

## Translated Particle

> Simply translates underlying `Particle` to a specified `Vector2` within the rendering `Canvas`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Simply translates the underlying `Particle` to a specified `Vector2` within the rendering `Canvas`.
```

Does not change or alter its position, consider using `MovingParticle` or `AcceleratedParticle` where change of position is required.
Same effect could be achieved by translating the `Canvas` layer.

```dart
game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: TranslatedParticle(

>             // Will translate child Particle effect to the center of game canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            // Will translate the child Particle effect to the center of game canvas.
```

            offset: game.size / 2,
            child: Particle(),
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Moving Particle

> Moves child `Particle` between `from` and `to` `Vector2`s during its lifespan. Supports `Curve` via `CurvedParticle`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moves the child `Particle` between the `from` and `to` `Vector2`s during its lifespan. Supports `Curve` via `CurvedParticle`.
```

```dart
game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: MovingParticle(
            // Will move from corner to corner of the game canvas.
            from: Vector2.zero(),
            to: game.size,
            child: Particle(),
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Accelerated Particle

> A basic physics particle which allows you to specify its initial `position`, `speed` and `acceleration` and let the `update` cycle do the rest. All three are specified as `Vector2`s, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A basic physics particle which allows you to specify its initial `position`, `speed` and `acceleration` and lets the `update` cycle do the rest. All three are specified as `Vector2`s, 
```

which you can think of as vectors. It works especially well for physics-based "bursts", but it is not limited to that.

> Unit of the `Vector2` value is _logical px/s_. So a speed of `Vector2(0, 100)` will move a child `Particle` by 100 logical pixels of the device every second of game time.

Reviewer 2: Speed is px/s, acceleration is px/s² and position is just what it is right?

Author: Not sure what you mean here :-)

Reviewer 2: It is talking about three different values and they have different units, which is a bit unclear.

Author: Suggestion for rewrite?

```dart
final rnd = Random();
game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: AcceleratedParticle(
            // Will fire off in the center of game canvas
            position: game.size.center(Vector2.zero()),

>             // With random initial speed of Vector2(-100..100, 0..-100)

Author: I think this just meant to indicate that the x and y's are in a certain range, it is not a dart syntax.

>             // With random initial speed of Vector2(-100..100, 0..-100)

Reviewer 3: That is disappointing :(

>             speed: Vector2(rnd.nextDouble() * 200 - 100, -rnd.nextDouble() * 100),

Reviewer 2: Could this use the same random function as above?
We really should add a Vector2 random extension.

Author: The random function is not even used it seems.

game.add(
  ParticleComponent(
    particle: CircleParticle(
      radius: game.size.width / 2,
      paint: Paint()..color = Colors.red.withOpacity(.5),
    ),
  ),
);
```

> ## Sprite Particle

Reviewer 2: I think it is better to keep the name as it is in the code? I think we do that in the rest of the docs now.

        particle: CircleParticle(
            radius: game.size.width / 2,
            paint: Paint()..color = Colors.red.withOpacity(.5),
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Sprite Particle

> Allows you to embed Flame's `Sprite` into your particle effects. Useful when consuming graphics for the effect from `SpriteSheet`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows you to embed a `Sprite` into your particle effects.
```

```dart
game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: SpriteParticle(
          sprite: Sprite('sprite.png'),
          size: Vector2(64, 64),
        ),
    ),
);
```

## Image Particle

Renders given `dart:ui` image within the particle tree. 

```dart
// During game initialisation
await Flame.images.loadAll(const [
    'image.png',
]);

// ...

// Somewhere during the game loop
final image = await Flame.images.load('image.png');

game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: ImageParticle(
          size: Vector2.all(24),
          image: image,
        );
    ),
);
```

## Animation Particle

> A `Particle` which embeds a Flame `Animation`. By default, aligns `Animation`s `stepTime` so that it's fully played during the `Particle` lifespan. It's possible to override this behavior with `alignAnimationTime` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `Particle` which embeds an `Animation`. By default, aligns the `Animation`'s `stepTime` so that it's fully played during the `Particle` lifespan. It's possible to override this behavior with the `alignAnimationTime` argument.
```

game.add(
  ParticleComponent(
    particle: CircleParticle(

>       radius: game.size.width / 2,

Reviewer 2: `game.size.x` was correct, or `game.width`

Author: Not sure how that got changed, fixed.

game.add(
    ParticleComponent(
        particle: ImageParticle(
          size: const Size.square(24),
          size: Vector2.all(24),

>           image: Flame.images.loadedFiles['image.png'],

Reviewer 3: We probably should load the image into a variable before using and then just pass it here. This way by accessing the loaded files seems a little hack and I would avoid something like that on our docs. Wdyt?

Author: Agreed :-) will follow up on this

        particle: AnimationParticle(
          animation: spritesheet.createAnimation(0, stepTime: 0.1),
        );
    ),
);
```

## Component Particle

> This `Particle` allows you to embed a Flame `Component` within the particle effects. The `Component` could have its own `update` lifecycle and
> could be reused across different effect trees. If the only thing you need is to add some dynamics to an instance of a certain `Component`, 
> please consider adding it to the `game` directly, without the `Particle` in the middle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `Particle` allows you to embed a `Component` within the particle effects. The `Component` could have its own `update` lifecycle and
could be reused across different effect trees. If the only thing you need is to add some dynamics to an instance of a certain `Component`, 
please consider adding it to the `game` directly, without the `Particle` in the middle.
```

To use Flare within Flame, use the [`flame_flare`](https://github.com/flame-engine/flame_flare) package.

> It will provide a class called  `FlareParticle` that is a container for `FlareActorAnimation`, it propagates `update` and `render` methods to its child.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It will provide a class called `FlareParticle` that is a container for `FlareActorAnimation`, it propagates the `update` and `render` methods to its child.
```

// Somewhere in game
game.add(
  ParticleComponent(
    particle: FlareParticle(flare: flareAnimation),
  ),
);
```

> ## Computed Particle

Reviewer 2: Isn't it better to keep it without the space? Then it will pop up when you search for it

Author: Fixed.

> Two entities allowing `Particle` to nest each other are: `SingleChildParticle` mixin and `ComposedParticle` class.

Reviewer 2: The description above needs updating, but I'm not allowed to comment that far from a change

Author: Uh how u mean?

> `SingleChildParticle` may help you with creating `Particles` with a custom behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `SingleChildParticle` may help you with creating `Particles` with a custom behavior.
```
